# Quotes

> A collection of quotes I like

* "Butler’s novel [*Parable of the Sower*] is brutal and soaring. I guess there’s a word people sometimes use for that combination: biblical." - Robin Sloan, "The plot against", *Society of the Double Dagger* Jun 10, 2020
* “Humility is not the opposite of confidence. They are duals. Confidence is knowing your abilities. Humility is knowing your limits.” - Hillel Wayne, *Computer Things* \#64
* “From Louisiana, he followed the hyphens in the road that blurred together toward a faraway place, bridging unrelated things as hyphens do.” - Isabel Wilkerson, *The Warmth of Other Suns* pg. 7
* "The greatest religious problem today is how to be both a mystic and a militant; in other words how to combine the search for an expansion of inner awareness with effective social action, and how to feel one's true identity in both." - Ursula K. Le Guin
    - I haven't been able to find a reliable source for this quote. I've taken it from [Rob Brezsny's Free Will Astrology](https://freewillastrology.com/horoscopes/) for the week of Sep. 24, 2020.
* "If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts; but if he will be content to begin with doubts, he shall end in certainties." - Francis Bacon, *The Advancement of Learning* (as quoted in Colin Dickey, *The Unidentified*, epitaph)
* "The post-Watergate era, the post-AIDS era, the post-9/11 era: we have become a nation of PTSD, a nation that cannot shut off the hunt for meaning and terror in each and every thing." - Colin Dickey, *The Unidentified*, pg. 256
* "So Lyra and her daemon turned away from the world they were born in, and looked toward the sun, and walked into the sky." - *The Golden Compass*, Philip Pullman, pg. 399
* "Next time you hear someone say 'he’s such a gossip', understand the statement to be 'he’s such an effective processor of socially-embedded information.''" - Robin Sloan, *The Society of the Double Dagger*, "Fresh from Ganymede!"
* "In Connecticut, the Governor's council took one look at the sky and decided to call it quits. Go home and wait for the angelic hosts to roll in. 'Close it up. Lights out.' One of them, however, wasn't having it: 'I am against adjournment. The day of judgment is either approaching, or it is not. If it is not, there is no cause for an adjournment; if it is, I choose to be found doing my duty. I wish therefore that candles may be brought.' The skies are dark. So are our prospects. Let's get back to work anyway. Bring the candles." - David Moldawer, The Maven Game, ["bring the candles"](https://mavengame.com/2020/10/bring-the-candles/)
* "Death, no matter our desires/can't be distracted. We know this much is true,/and it's true for all souls: each of us will one day/find the feast finished and, fattened or famished,/step slowly backward into their own dark hall/for that final night of sleep." – *Beowulf*, as translated by Maria Dahvana Headley
* "I'd rather die deceived by dreams than give/My heart to home and trade and never live." - Farid Attar (trans. Dick Davis), *Conference of the Birds*, pg. 94
* "And even as we write this final sentence, the sentence that will not be revised, we confess to being certain of one and only one thing – we swear to keep, on penalty of death, this one promise: *We will live!*" - Viet Thanh Nguyen, *The Symphatizer*, pg. 382
* "Society loves a rule breaker, but only because it has the herd immunity of social contracts." - ["Case Study: The Thematic Biopic"](https://thesublemon.tumblr.com/post/161711916117/case-study-the-thematic-biopic), The Sublemon
* "My enemies must nominate themselves; I have no interest at all in making, finding, or knowing them." - Ursula K. Le Guin, 2015 Archive Entry 96, ["Addendum to 'Are they going to say this is fantasy?'"](https://www.ursulakleguin.com/blog/2015-archive)
* "May I try to tell you again where your only comfort lies? It is not in forgetting the happy past. People bring us well-meant but miserable consolations when they tell us what time will do to help our grief. We do not want to lose our grief, because our grief is bound up with our love and we could not cease to mourn without being robbed of our affections." – Phillips Brooks in a [letter to a friend on the death of his mother](https://www.futilitycloset.com/2021/04/23/remembering/)
* "To his venerable master A., greeting. This is to inform you that I am studying at Oxford with great diligence, but the matter of money stands greatly in the way of my promotion, as it is now two months since I spent the last of what you sent me. The city is expensive and makes many demands. I have to rent lodgings, buy necessaries, and provide for many other things which I cannot now specify. Wherefore I respectfully beg your paternity that by the promptings of divine pity you may assist me, so that I may be able to complete what I have well begun." – From a [circa 1220 form letter](https://www.futilitycloset.com/2021/01/15/student-debt/) provided by Oxford University to students seeking money from patrons
