# 52 Books of 2020

1. *The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts*, Israel Finkelstein and Neil Asher Silberman
2. *This Is How You Lose The Time War*, Amal El-Mohtar and Max Gladstone
3. *Maoism: A Global History*, Julia Lovell
4. *A History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps: Volume 1 - Classical Philosophy*, Peter Adamson
5. *Fifth Sun: A New History of the Aztecs*, Camilla Townsend
6. *The Secret of Our Success: How Culture Is Driving Human Evolution, Domesticating Our Species, and Making Us Smarter*, Joseph Henrich
7. *The Hidden History of Burma: Race, Capitalism, and the Crisis of Democracy in the 21st Century*, Thant Myint-U
8. *Serve the People!*, Yan Lianke (trans. Julia Lovell)
9. *The Hungry Brain: Outsmarting the Instincts That Make Us Overeat*, Stephan Guyenet
10. *Legend of the Condor Heroes #1: A Hero Born*, Jin Yong (trans. Anna Holmwood)
11. *Introducing Daoism*, Livia Kohn
12. *The Westing Game*, Ellen Raskin
13. *Paradise Lost*, John Milton
14. *Did God Have A Wife?: Archaeology and Folk Religion in Ancient Israel*, William G. Dever
15. *The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy*, Douglas Adams
16. *The Hebrew Bible: A Translation with Commentary - The Five Books of Moses*, (trans. Robert Alter)
17. *Timaeus* and *Critias*, Plato (trans. Robin Waterfield)
18. *The Golden Ass*, Apuleius (trans. P.G. Walsh)
19. *Handbook of Chinese Mythology*, Yang Lihui, An Deming, and Jessica Anderson Turner
20. *The Iliad*, Homer (trans. Caroline Alexander)
21. *The Odyssey*, Homer (trans. Emily Wilson)
22. *The Trojan Women*, Euripides (trans. Emily Wilson)
23. *The Peach Blossom Fan*, Kong Shangren (trans. Chen Shih-Hsiang, Harold Acton, and Cyril Birch)
24. *Myths from Mesopotamia* (trans. Stephanie Dalley)
25. *Dao De Jing: A Philosophical Translation - “Making This Life Significant”* (trans. Roger T. Ames and David L. Hall)
26. *Helen*, Euripides (trans. Emily Wilson)
27. *The Aeneid*, Virgil (trans. David Ferry)
28. *Stories from Ancient Canaan* (trans. Michael D Coogan and Mark S Smith)
29. *Lysistrata*, Aristophanes (trans. Stephen Halliwell)
30. *Metamorphoses*, Ovid (trans. A.D. Melville)
31. *Bacchae*, Euripides (trans. Emily Wilson)
32. *Prometheus Bound* (trans. James Romm)
33. *My Year of Rest and Relaxation*, Ottessa Moshfegh
34. *Persepolis: The Story of a Childhood*, Marjane Satrapi
35. *The Divine Comedy*, Dante (trans. C.H. Sisson)
36. *A History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps: Volume 2 - Philosophy in the Hellenistic & Roman Worlds*, Peter Adamson
37. *The Lotus Sutra* (trans. Tsugunari Kubo and Akira Yuyama)
38. *The Birds*, Aristophanes (trans. Stephen Halliwell)
39. *Mistborn: The Final Empire*, Brandon Sanderson
40. *Everything I Never Told You*, Celeste Ng
41. *An Artist of the Floating World*, Kazuo Ishiguro
42. *The Lotus Sutra: A Biography*, Donald S. Lopez Jr
43. *The Unidentified: Mythical Monsters, Alien Encounters, and Our Obsession with the Unexplained*, Colin Dickey
44. *The Underground Railroad*, Colson Whitehead
45. *Breaking Bread with the Dead: A Reader's Guide to a More Tranquil Mind*, Alan Jacobs
46. *His Dark Materials: Book 1 - The Golden Compass*, Philip Pullman
47. *Piranesi*, Susanna Clarke
48. *The Nine Cloud Dream*, Kim Man-jung (trans. Heinz Insu Fenkl)
49. *The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe*, C.S. Lewis
50. *The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian*, C.S. Lewis
51. *Notes from Underground*, Fyodor Dostoevsky (trans. Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky)
