# 52 Books of 2021

1. *Guards! Guards!*, Terry Pratchett
2. *The Chronicles of Narnia: The Silver Chair*, C.S. Lewis
3. *Dead Souls*, Nikolai Gogol (trans. Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky)
4. *Marie de France: Poetry*, Marie de France (trans. Dorothy Gilbert)
5. *William Blake* (edited Martin Myrone and Amy Concannon)
6. *The Chronicles of Narnia: The Magician's Nephew*, C.S. Lewis
7. *Beowulf* (trans. Maria Dahvana Headley)
8. *The Tibetan Book of the Dead: A Biography*, Donald S. Lopez, Jr.
9. *The Buried Giant*, Kazuo Ishiguro
10. *The Last Samurai*, Helen DeWitt
11. *The Song of Achilles*, Madeleine Miller
12. *A Promised Land*, Barack Obama
13. *The Conference of the Birds*, Farid Attar (trans. Dick Davis and Afkham Darbandi)
14. *The Sympathizer*, Viet Thanh Nguyen
15. *The Magicians*, Lev Grossman
16. *Sourdough*, Robin Sloan
17. *The Song of Kieu: A New Lament*, Nguyen Du (trans. Timothy Allen)
18. *The Chronicles of Narnia: The Last Battle*, C.S. Lewis
19. *The True History of Tea*, Victor H. Mair and Erling Hoh
20. *Steal Like An Artist: 10 Things Nobody Told You About Being Creative*, Austin Kleon
21. *Show Your Work!: 10 Ways to Share Your Creativity and Get Discovered*, Austin Kleon
22. *Three Kingdoms: A Historical Novel, Complete and Unabridged*, Luo Guanzhong (trans. Moss Roberts)
23. *The Refugees*, Viet Thanh Nguyen
24. *How to Live a Good Life: A Guide to Choosing Your Personal Philosophy* (ed. Massimo Pigliucci, Skye C. Cleary, & Daniel A. Kaufman)
25. *Global Economic History: A Very Short Introduction*, Robert C. Allen
26. *The Ramayana: A Modern Retelling of the Great Indian Epic*, Ramesh Menon
27. *The Innovation Delusion: How Our Obsession With The New Has Disrupted The Work That Matters Most*, Lee Vinsel and Andrew L. Russell
28. *Resetting the Table: Straight Talk about the Food We Grow and Eat*, Robert Paarlberg
29. *The Scout Mindset: Why Some People See Things Clearly and Others Don't*, Julia Galef
30. *Rule Makers, Rule Breakers: How Tight and Loose Cultures Wire Our World*, Michele Gelfand
